[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>>MARIA WHEATLEY:
Well, hi, everyone.
And thanks for getting up early
to come and listen to my talk.
I'm going to be talking about
a secret history of Stonehenge
because we have been
lied to time and time
again from the
Ministry of Works.
In fact, the Ministry
of Works, which
was the early English
heritage, really
saw what people were
doing at Stonehenge,
and so they defaced the stones.
I'm going to bring
back the magic
and show you what the
archaeologists did to partly
destroy some of the stones.
But we're going to get
going with this lecture.
And we're going to go back
in time now, back in time
to the Neolithic.
The Neolithic is about 5
and 1/2 thousand years ago.
And they built these
wonderful monuments.
You're seeing at the moment,
West Kennet Long Barrow.
That's a megalithic long
barrow and inside of which,
there's these chambers of stone.
And what I discovered
through dowsing,
through spiritual dowsing,
is that these people
had elongated skulls.
And in 2015, when I discovered
these elongated skulls,
I didn't have the
body measurements.
Now I have.
And I'm going to show you
a long lost mythical race.
Yes, there were giants
around the Stonehenge.
But I'm going to show you
what I believe is the origins
of the Tuatha Dé Danann
mythology of Ireland.
This is another long barrow
called Wayland's Smithy.
Wayland's Smithy is
absolutely incredible.
It's in Oxfordshire.
And it's, again, a
Neolithic monument.
But these monuments were
laid out not just on leys,
but have an Earth current
flow down their axis line.
So right, if they're invisible,
but they're going right the way
down.
But people see earth energy,
it's like lines on a map.
And they call them leys.
But research has shown,
coming out of the 1930s,
the earth energies are colorful.
They have a dominant color.
And the dominant color
of this barrow is blue.
So it can activate
the throat chakra.
But on the Salisbury Plain,
there isn't any stone.
It was all imported from places
like Wales and Marlborough
for the different
types of stone there.
So this is a Neolithic
wooden, earthen mound.
That's what was on
the Salisbury Plain.
The Salisbury Plain,
like I said yesterday,
is an area about 26 miles
by 26 miles, owned and run
by the military, with 2,500
ancient sites on there
controlled literally by all
those military establishments.
So again, why is
that wherever you
have ancient sites,
powerful vortex energy,
you have a military presence?
And these are another type
of megalithic structures,
where they're called dolmens.
And the Tinkinswood one
with the long portal slab
stone, that had up
to 100 people in,
all buried in different ways.
In the Neolithic, they
didn't bury the whole body.
There would only be
one whole body normally
in all of those burials.
So they used to
de-flesh the body,
take the femur bone
and the skulls,
and place those in a bit
like the pirate's flag.
And that's what they
placed into the barrows.
We used to have some very
unusual ones, the guardians.
I'm going to show
you a guardian,
you sometimes get them
in a flexed position
like this, where they tie the
body up in the fetal position.
This is from the bell beaker
culture, which is 2500 BC.
And it's very tall.
The femur bone is very long.
So that person was
probably about 6 foot 9",
7 feet, put in the
flexed position.
But then we have the guardians.
And this is a very old
antiquarian drawing,
where you'd have them sitting,
staring out into the distance.
And as a kind of
spiritual person
that interacts with these
ancient sites and as a druid,
you ask the guardian before
you go onto the site.
You ask the spirit of
place and the ancestors.
And once you have permission
to go into the site,
and it's easy, you just
stand by an ancient site,
and you just tune into the land.
And then if your body pulls
forward, that's a yes.
The ancestors and
these guardians
have allowed you access.
If you don't, it's just kind
of like going into a temple
with no respect really.
So that's what we
tend to practice.
Now on the Salisbury Plain,
overlooking the land.
And when you're on
the Salisbury Plain,
and these barrows certainly
overlooks the land,
you're on elevated ground.
It feels like the sky
is very close to touch.
And this is the largest long
barrow in Northwest Europe.
It snakes across.
And it had one person
in it, one woman.
So clearly, she was probably a
high priest or high priestess.
And she was probably
associated as well
with the building of
Stonehenge phase one.
We'll look at the
different phases later on.
So when I discovered
this barrow,
I thought, well, who is it?
And like I said yesterday,
these people of the past,
they call to you.
And if you listen
very carefully,
they tell you things and
guide you to make discoveries.
And one of those
discoveries that I found
was very close to
Stonehenge, not on any map
as well, it was on
antiquarian maps.
But one of the strangest
burials that I have found,
and I found several, some of
which I'll be discussing today,
was very similar to
Lloyd Pye's Starchild
because the antiquarians that
dug into it wrote a report.
Then it was re-evaluated in
the 1930s, and we discussed.
And in that report,
it said there
was several people in a
circle, all tied together
with long skulls.
And they were forming a circle.
Inside of this circle
was this strange being
that was described.
Had the eyes on the top
of the head, for example.
It had a tail.
And it had a crooked
skeleton as well.
So it was like that shape.
And they really didn't know
what they'd discovered.
So it got filed away in what's
called the National Monument
Record Office.
And this is where I find these
type of details, which have
been literally squirreled away.
So what was this person?
Was it a deformed human being?
Was it someone from the stars?
We'll never know because
the skull has gone missing.
But it was definitely very,
very close to Stonehenge.
I think we have to be very
open-minded with the people
of the past and
question everything
because no one author has
all the answers anyway.
Coming together like we do, we
together can solve mysteries.
And so, some of the information
was lost, and some of it
was gained as well.
And in the gain in the 1930s,
the bones of this Starchild
as I call it, when a high
state of preservation,
for example, like
it's written here,
I told you there
was three skeletons.
And also, one of the bones,
they said the bones of the leg
were like hollow as well.
So it's maybe that
caused it to have
a crooked skull, a crooked
spine, for example.
So there's lots of
these facts going on.
So that's one of my
first strangest burials
that I found at Stonehenge,
which is quite incredible.
And also, if we go to
Lloyd Pye's information,
then his was about
900 years old.
Whereas this one's 5 and
1/2 thousand years old.
It could be one of the earliest
features in the Stonehenge
landscape that may not
have been from this earth.
So I find that really,
really fascinating.
And it's never been found again.
None of these unusual
skulls, they get literally,
like I said, pushed away.
I don't know if
all-- probably you
haven't been to
Cambridge University,
but for example, in a room
like this, a really, really
big room, down one side, you
have box after box after box,
with skull after
skull after skull.
And then on the other side
is all the Egyptian skulls.
And they don't really
know what they've got.
So will all those
souls be playing again?
Yes.
[LAUGHS] I know you're all
from the Salisbury Plain.
And these red flags mean you
can't have access to the plain.
You've got to be very
careful how you navigate it.
You really, really have.
And these unusual
burials are inside that.
Yeah.
So we have to imagine that
you've got to navigate it.
And sometimes they're open
to the general public.
And sometimes it isn't.
It's Area 51.
It has hardly
anybody visiting it.
It has wardens.
And if you go off track,
the wardens will get you on.
You're being monitored
from the moment you
go on to the Salisbury Plain.
And I took a group to meditate,
in the name of the ancestors,
on one of the barrows.
And literally, security was
there within five minutes.
So they're watching
you all of the time.
So yeah, these are
some of the tanks
there that you find as you
drive across the plain.
This is a firing
area, for example.
And you can go in
a car when it's
opened a couple of
times of the year
because there's a village
there called Imber.
So it's open at some times.
What I find fascinating about
Stonehenge, they're the people.
And I'm going to show you what
they look like in a moment.
But I want you to come and
visit Stonehenge with me
because we all think
we know Stonehenge.
It's the most iconic
stone circle in the world.
So we do think we know it.
But when it was being restored
from the 1900s onwards,
what didn't fit the model--
and this is the
model that Stukeley
drew in 1724, the
Reverend William
Stukeley, that's the model.
And then when Colonel Hawley
came along in the 1900s,
that's the model.
And Atkinson in the
1960s, that's the model.
But what Colonel Hawley did,
he found many unusual stones,
but it doesn't fit the model.
So what do we do because we
think we know Stonehenge?
So they buried it nearby.
And what I've done is I'm
raising all these stone
features and showing you
a new view of Stonehenge.
Then we're going to have a
look at the individual stones.
Like I said, when
I opened up, they
have been defaced and
destroyed by English heritage.
And this is one of
the reconstructions,
before the
reconstruction, sorry.
And everybody tended
to write postcards
when they visited in this era
here in 1929, after illness.
Time and time again,
it was after illness.
But we can see how bad the
state of Stonehenge was there.
They've got no
lintels on hardly.
That's what it looked like
when Colonel Hawley arrived.
And so they set to work to
reconstruct over the next 40
years or so.
But they all said
one thing as well.
And I could this
quote here says,
"Still and then, those that
drank the miracle water
were healed."
That was first written
in the 12th century
by Geoffrey of Monmouth.
He said, if you take scrapings
of the sarsen or bluestones
that form Stonehenge,
you will be healed.
But could it be there
was a different type
of water generated by
Stonehenge that was healing?
And that's what
I'll show you later.
And also, in that model
that I showed you earlier,
that iconic model, they said
there was one or two stone.
OK.
And you're seeing
Stonehenge weathered.
OK.
It's terribly weathered
for Orthodox dating,
4 and 1/2 thousand years
of British weather.
What do you expect?
It looks gray.
But originally it wasn't.
I'm going to later
on come and have
a look at Polish bluestone.
The bluestones came from Wales.
And they were so highly
polished, they looked
like the star spangled sky.
At the center of Stonehenge,
bejewel in the monument,
was the Altar Stones.
I'll show you.
They say there's
only one altar stone.
And it was green and red.
It was flexed with
garnet and mica.
And it shone and glistened.
And on the outside, the
stones weren't gray.
All archaeologists know
the stones aren't gray.
The greater trilithon
at Stonehenge,
it was originally orange and
pink, reflecting the sun.
And all archaeologists
agree with that.
So come on, let's see Stonehenge
in this really colorful way.
Now Atkinson, Professor
Richard Atkinson.
Don't let the name
professor fool you.
He damaged Stonehenge
beyond all recognition.
And his name should be blighted
from the archaeological books.
He destroyed some of Stonehenge.
In fact, all the
druids in the area
say one thing, go to Stonehenge,
don't get obsessed by it.
Am I obsessed?
No.
[LAUGHTER]
But you've got to be
really, really careful,
OK, because he did get obsessed.
And he started to hide artifacts
in his bedroom and things.
This is Professor Atkinson.
And this is him doing
the reconstruction,
pulling one of
the trilithons up.
Now these aren't in the earth.
Most people think standing
stones in this area
are in the earth.
They're not.
They're in solid chalk bedrock.
So they're linked into
particular socket holes.
He moved that by 15 inches.
So if you've got good
eyes at Stonehenge,
you know they're no longer
opposite each other.
That's another little
crime of Atkinson.
The henge bank.
When you see those iconic
pictures of Stonehenge,
it's open.
You can even drive along
the A303, look to your left,
and you see the stones.
That wasn't like in
the ancient times.
Imagine, there's
the stone circle,
and it's surrounded by
a 10-foot chalk bank.
You can't see into Stonehenge.
So all you could see back
in the day as it were,
was the top of the
greater trilithon.
I inherited all the unpublished
surveys by a master dowser
called Guy Underwood.
And my late father
was a master dowser.
He also knew the custodian
and the archaeologist
of Stonehenge.
He was there at Atkinson's dig.
Atkinson wanted to know roughly
how deep this massive henge
bank was glowing chalk white.
OK.
And he said that what
he saw, Atkinson lied.
And it's in every
single guidebook.
Atkinson said, that's
made of chalk rubble,
it's just chalk rubble.
And they kind of put it all
together and made a wall.
Our eyewitness said,
no, it was scooped out
of the ground like a
pudding bowl and made high.
What sort of
technology did that?
That's over 330
feet in diameter.
So it's very, very smooth.
Again in the ancient world,
there's evidence for color.
Everything may have
been very colorful.
For example, this is a barrow
in Sardinia that I visited.
It looks gray,
and it looks warm.
But that's what it was like,
full of beautiful color.
OK.
Ocher, I find ocher
everywhere around Stonehenge.
There's also evidence
that the henge bank
in other parts of the
country that preceded this,
were also colorful,
carved with symbols.
And that's from Professor
Mike Parker Pearson.
So what I say is
that hedge bank could
have been very, very colorful.
I've done experiments
with ocher.
If you mix it with
some ammonia, then you
can literally paint onto stone.
And even through
storm after storm,
it remains pretty constant.
It would need a touch
up every now and again.
So again, it's a colorful
world, the ancients,
not gray like that on
the inside and out.
And in Orkney, they found paint
pots on the Ness of Brodgar.
And here we have
that iconic picture
all in the shades of gray.
So for example,
that huge trailer
form there, that was deep orange
with a beautiful pink hue.
These stones never
saw the light of day
until they reached Stonehenge.
People think when
they go and look
at stones in what's called
the Valley of the Stones
about 17 miles
from this monument,
oh, that's where
they got them from.
No, they dug them out.
They were buried.
Because if you
have a buried stone
and you raise it to
see the light of day,
it's easy to make into
a lot and just shape.
So these stones were special.
Avebury was built
from stones that
had been lying on the surface.
These came from
deep underground.
And bluestones,
that term bluestone
implies they're all blue.
No, some were green.
Some were such a beautiful
green shade with red.
And like I said before,
these flexes in them,
well, that didn't fit the model.
So guess what Atkinson
did, he buried them.
And I've got a map to show
you where they all were.
When we look at
Stonehenge, again
through this same,
same model, then we
see it's got an axis
line that everybody says,
oh it's aligned to
the midsummer sunrise.
It's off.
Atkinson again.
He forced that photograph
really because if you
were at the center
of Stonehenge,
to get the sunrise
over the Heel Stone,
you have to be 6 feet away.
And he got his
photographer to do that.
Any archaeoastronomer will
tell you the Heel Stone's best
alignment is to the moon.
Every nine years the moon
rises above the Heel Stone.
That's its true alignment.
So we're going to go have
a new view of Stonehenge
now because English
heritage will tell you,
there's a stone circle of
sarsens in which there's
the bluestones.
Then you've got the trilithons,
then you have the Altar Stone.
I say no.
There was a concentric stone
circle of bluestones there,
and there's the evidence for it.
And here, Professor Mike Parker
Pearson, he agrees with me.
He says we don't know
if the bluestone sockets
behind the greater trilithon
were part of Q and R bluestone
circle.
Everyone else says
it's a horseshoe, which
I have interpreted, and I do.
But the English heritage say no.
It says a horseshoe.
Let's stick it as a horseshoe.
But the professionals think
it's a concentric stone
circle of the bluestones
on the inside.
I'll show you that in a moment.
That's the model I've
been talking about.
No avenue leading into
it, and this is my model.
And it's saying to you there
was two Altar Stones, very
colorful.
One was taken and we'll see,
by the occultist of the royals.
He stole that stone.
And then that's the
concentric circle.
And there may have even
been another trilithon.
And I'll show you that.
They know that's there.
Yeah.
So it could have been opposite.
So that's what English
heritage tell you.
That is probably the
truth of Stonehenge.
And I'm getting more
and more archaeologists
agreeing with me.
You just got to
step outside the box
and say no, this could be
a beautiful new Stonehenge.
And right at the top, where
it says stone number 30 and 1,
you've got extra stones
like a bluestone avenue.
You'd walk processionally
into Stonehenge,
through a very short avenue.
That's not on any model
at all because Atkinson
knew that there was
that way to enter it.
And he even got the excavation.
That's the excavation
showing you the entrance.
But he decided in all the
guides, not to keep that in.
Again, another kind of
I-repress information.
James I-- aren't all kings mad?
Yeah.
Isn't our queen mad?
The kings of the past, honestly,
King James VI for Scotland,
James I of England, as
he would become known,
a very unusual king.
And he even inspired all
of Shakespeare's plays.
He was paranoid about witches.
Yeah.
He was so paranoid
about witches,
he decided to write a book.
His first most famous book
was translating the Bible
from Latin into English.
And it's still a
bestseller today.
And then he was accusing
people of witchcraft that
are trying to topple him down.
And so he wrote
demonology telling
people, oh, if they have
these signs on them,
that they're a witch.
And he started the
frenzy of it all.
But meanwhile, he
was an occultist.
And he had two occultists
working with him.
In fact, he was married
to Queen Anne of Denmark.
OK.
But he had a lover.
And his lover was
called George Villiers,
the dashingly handsome
duke of Buckingham.
That's what I need.
Now traditionally, you
have one Altar Stone here.
It's said to have stood at
the heart of Stonehenge.
I say there were two.
And I said there was
evidence for two.
The socket hole was
found in the 1620s
by James I, his lover,
the Duke of Buckingham,
and Inigo Jones went
with him as well.
Inigo Jones said that
there was six trilithons.
He got that through
sacred geometry.
We are going to
find the sixth one.
They called the socket hole
in modern times WA3359.
So what happened?
Duke of Buckingham said
to James I, I'm ill,
I'm really, really ill.
The whole of England
thought James
I was going to die after
his wife, Anne of Denmark,
departed.
And so the Duke said,
we need a blood ritual.
And they did a blood ritual.
And the following year,
James I came back to life.
And the first place they
all went to to visit
was Stonehenge because they
knew the stones could heal,
because it was written
in the 12th century
that they were healing stones.
So that's where they went.
And that's where we're
going to go in search for,
the Altar Stone.
This is the Duke
of Buckingham here.
When he went there
with Inigo Jones,
he said, I will
buy the trilithon.
He wanted the greater trilithon
to take back to London.
And he offered the owner at
the time, any money you want.
He had more power than
the King of England.
He was in control of
England at that time.
Him and his mother, they
were both occultists.
But the owner said no.
And so that's the
stone that they wanted.
It's leaning.
Colonel Hawley put it back up.
But that's the one they wanted.
And they couldn't have that.
So they probably, for
the occult practices,
took the Altar Stone, the second
Altar Stone, which is probably
being stolen and carted away.
And this is the evidence for it.
All through history has been
saying the second altar stone,
in John Aubrey's famous
book "Monumenta Britannica,"
Aubrey was told of the
second Altar Stone's fate
by the Rector of Bishopstone.
He said that Phillip,
Earl of Pembroke,
Lord Chamberlain to King
Charles I, successor of James I,
did say that an Altar Stone was
found in the middle of the area
here.
And it was carted
away to St. James.
And they interpret that as
St. James's Palace in London.
So it was all documented
that the second Altar
Stone was stolen.
And when I asked archaeologists,
we have all of this evidence.
They were still looking
for it in the 1930s.
For example, oh, well, we'll
just stick to the model.
And it's probably here
in St. James's Palace
or in another
place in Wiltshire,
which Inigo Jones designed.
So it's in one of those places.
And it was one of the
most healing stones there.
With the official
line of Atkinson
with the second oldest dome,
they know the hole's there.
They know the hole's there.
So they've got to find it.
And he says that the
stone hole, WA3359,
was for a makeshift stone.
And the makeshift Altar
Stone was this blue stone
with a groove in it
that still stands today
by the Altar Stone.
And there's one stone that
they buried and hid away
that has a kind of tongue.
And they put these
two stones together,
and they made a makeshift
Altar Stone now.
Everything at
Stonehenge had meaning.
Nothing was by chance.
And that's no way the
second Altar Stone.
But that's the
official line going.
So we're coming to
another anomaly now,
the buried trilithon.
Again, Hawley,
back in the 1930s,
really knew that was the model.
They clearly saw that.
But they knew that they didn't
know what to do with it.
They found it.
And so this is the
model Inigo Jones
made of the sixth trilithon.
That's what it looks like.
And where is it?
This is where it is.
It's buried right there.
And they know that.
And they won't dig it up, and
they won't do an excavation.
I've called for one
recently and saying, well,
let's just have a look.
GeoPhys it.
Do something to try and
find this wonderful stone.
We're going to talk now
about the power of stone
because Stonehenge can really
change your consciousness.
And it has such healing
ability that is second to none.
And that is the magic of stone.
Imagine there's loads
of ley lines coursing
through Stonehenge.
But more than that,
at the center,
you have a convergence of
earth currents rising out
of the ground.
And also, by the Heel Stone,
that's a power point as well.
We'll have a look at the
metaphysical properties
of stone and how the
ancients used the monument.
And here we have a wonderful
quote from the 12th century.
"For in these stones is a
mystery and a healing virtue
against many ailments.
For they washed the stones
and poured the water
into baths, whereby those
who were sick were cured.
For not a stone is
there that is wanting
in virtue or leech-craft."
Meaning it was the best place to
go and have healing and mixing
water with stone.
That's a trace element
of what was really
happening with some of these
very, very mighty stones.
These stones here are
what's called in situ.
They haven't ever been
touched by Atkinson.
They're not swamped in concrete.
That's how the ancients
put them there.
And again, imagine
them pink and orange.
Fade like pink hue is
very beautiful sarsen
that's come out of the ground.
It's not that kind of
gray color that you see.
And this is the side of
a very special trilithon.
So join me now.
We're going to Stonehenge.
We've gone through the entrance
of the bluestone concentric
circle.
And now there's a horseshoe
with the trilithon behind me.
And just on my left-hand
side is a towering stone.
And if you walk towards
that, you really do
feel your body down one
side tingle, for example.
But it had a hole
on the other side.
And that hole there,
according to the custodian
of Stonehenge and
the archaeologist,
that made water
even in a drought.
It was magical.
They said it could
be really hot day.
It would fill up
with water, and they
tried to figure out where
the water was coming from.
And you can even
see water erosion
where it was overflowing.
And so people went
there from far and wide,
and said that it could heal all
sorts of disorders, shortness
of breath.
Asthma is what they were
talking about in that time.
The falling sickness, epilepsy
is what that was called.
And people even in the
1940s after the war
used to go there and start
bathing and washing in it.
And they said they would
be cured of all ailments.
That's why in that
first postcard
I showed you, after illness.
So it's very, very powerful.
And so there was queues.
Now in the 1940s, people had
ailments from the Second World
War.
So people are queuing
by that stone.
And the authorities
got to hear about it
and said, what's all this
about the healing waters here?
They were saying, oh, it's
like the lords of France.
And so we can't have this.
We're going to stop
this practice now,
and that's what they did.
They plugged it up with
cement and plastic.
So it no longer is a feature.
But it's remembered by the very
old even in Amesbury today.
So that's one of the healing
virtues of the mighty temple
we call Stonehenge.
This stone has fallen.
It came down in a storm.
That's the line that again,
English heritage say,
the stones didn't fall down.
They'd been up for 4
and 1/2 thousand years.
What happened was Atkinson got
a crane, and he lifted stone 22
from its socket.
And apparently it went crazy.
And it spun around and
spun around and spun around
and went bang into
another stone.
And so now that one's leaning.
So they said, oh, we're
going to push that one up.
And this one came down because
of something else Atkinson did.
We'll see in a moment.
But they, our archaeologists
say that this tool in here,
as it's called broad
tooling, it makes a spine,
like a big ridge.
And you've got two, and
they're human height.
So when that stone was upright,
if I went against it like this,
it goes perfectly down my spine.
You get these spine stones at
lots and lots of stone circles.
Avebury has one.
And I believe that they
were when they were upright,
if you put your
spine against them,
hundreds and hundreds of
people have done this with me
and said that they
feel the energy.
But here's a good trick when
you go to Stonehenge, when
you get booked your
private access with me,
you can get your hands
and go all the way down,
and you feel heat
rising out of the stone.
And I took just recently,
this last month,
I took 60 people all
in all to Stonehenge.
60 people felt the heat
coming out of that stone.
And then you get the guards
come over, what are you doing,
you're not allowed
to touch the stones.
Touch the stones
gently like that.
And I said, there's heat
coming out of the stones.
Well, that was the look.
And then he saw it doing it.
And he called the other
security over and said,
look at this, the heat.
So I think it was generated
like that in the past.
It's an incredible stone.
All of the stones at Stonehenge
trilithons were for healing.
OK.
This other trilithon
on the opposite side
has a very strange
carving in it.
It's like it was
seared in a moment.
It's like a rectangle.
Back in the
Elizabethan times, it
was recorded that there was
a metal plate found here
in Stonehenge.
Eventually, it got buried
in a burial, possibly
with a very tall giant, as
people, other researchers
like Hugh Newman, would say.
I think he got buried.
But it was said to
be found near there,
the metal they didn't know.
They were learned
scholars at the time.
They said it was tin.
Then they argued, no,
it's not tin, it's lead.
They couldn't figure it out and
had all these hieroglyphics,
all and these strange
symbols on it.
I propose that it was
actually at Stonehenge itself.
And this stone here, the
trilithon, this is the carving.
It's the exact same measurements
as that metal plate.
So maybe that was saying
something about the history.
But then people say, well,
no, it was a Stone Age.
It was the Neolithic
and the Bronze Age.
But nonetheless,
that plate, whatever
it was, wherever it came
from, probably went there.
And that's what I think.
And it probably
shone beautifully so.
Just before we come to
the people of the past,
I want to tell you about the
fate of trilithon 59 and 60.
The spine stone I've just
showed you was gently
leaning over like that.
Anyone will tell you that
a leaning stone shows
you the strongest earth energy,
and it bows to sacred space.
That's why when you
enter a long barrow,
you always have to go down
and then come back up.
You bow to sacred space.
And Atkinson said, we're going
to straighten it like this.
It can't be leaning, can't
be that, can't be the design.
So with crane and chain,
he lifted that stone up.
And he must have
had an, oh-no moment
because suddenly, it had
a cutout feature that
began to crack.
And it cracked to
all the way down.
And they said there
was a sound released
from that stone itself.
And today, that's the
weakest point of Stonehenge.
And they didn't know what to do.
So they plugged it
up with concrete.
That's why you see this
stone and people go,
what's inside that?
It's a huge piece
of ugly concrete.
And that's because it was
destroyed by Atkinson.
But the people of
the past, I mentioned
that they had elongated skulls.
There's two types of
elongated-skulled people.
For example, back in 2015,
when I first discovered them,
this is the high queen
of that long barrow
that I discussed earlier.
She had a hyper elongated
skull because it had
been manipulated by bandaging.
You do get naturally
long-skulled people,
but some of their skulls
have been extended.
And this is the one from
Cambridge, definitely
a ruling elite.
She was buried with
artifacts as well.
So they say in the Stone
Age, although there was never
any artifacts, she
was buried with what
looked like a kind of a
wand with antlers and also
an incense pot.
And the incense pots, if
you imagine in churches,
they swing the incense
like that, don't they?
That's what they would do, and
they had these incense pots.
They were swinging
them like in churches,
and they were full of opiates.
So they were entering a
different sort of consciousness
if you will.
Now I did have the
body proportions
when I first had that skull.
I then had to go
back to Cambridge
to find out the dimensions.
And even though they had
very long elongated skulls,
they're tiny little
skulls because we
have a body measurement
of one eighth of our head
to our bodies.
They didn't.
It was one tenth.
So they have very, very
small heads and long bodies,
looking all completely
out of proportions.
And these are from an
anthropologist from Oxford.
And when I said to
them, well, you've
got all of this information.
Has anyone ever put
one of these together?
And they said, no.
And with the full height
of the femur bone,
probably about 5 feet.
This is a male, for example.
So very tiny little heads.
And this is me
measuring a femur bone
with the curator of Oxford.
And all the measurements
from all of the Neolithic
long barrows, 17 inches or less.
Even from the names,
like the giants grave,
they were just 16 inches,
again 5 feet 4" tall.
That's the skull shape that
was again, from reports.
So you imagine that tiny skull.
And their faces were
so narrow, like this.
And when I said to the
curator that you've just seen,
that's like a child's,
and he said, yeah, I know.
So they were kind
of very, almost like
as you'll see, fairy-like
because their ears were
all in a different position
than we have today.
So I think these were the
mythical beings that descended
into the mounds in mythology
in Ireland because they say
the Tuatha Dé Danaan were
the ruling supernatural fae,
the fairy folk of Ireland.
And after losing a
battle, which they
did have a battle,
the elongated skulls,
they descended into the mounts.
That's what I think
these beings are.
They're very different
from the giants because
in every single report that
we read, their ears were
quite large, set further back.
So we have our ears in
the right place for us.
Their ears, much,
much further back
giving them again
this mythological kind
of look like our modern day
depictions that we have today.
But very fine features as well.
And I believe with
their elongated skulls,
that they had metaphysical
powers about them.
And I think they could,
as I mentioned yesterday,
I think they could
hear the stones.
So there's two types
of long-headed people
like I mentioned earlier.
This is a long-headed
person, really
extended skull at the back.
And the evidence
from the long barrow
is, especially at
Stonehenge, that there
was some kind of battle
that was going on
at Stonehenge, for example.
So you've got these
mythical looking people.
And I believe with
the ancient DNA,
that they were the
ones that constructed
Stonehenge because it's
a Neolithic monument.
So you have the lesser type.
And this is one here, the
skull is still very tiny.
And they were, again, very
small with their femur bones.
And this is a close-up of
a very, very childlike,
even in weight.
And these bones are
very, very light as well,
rather than the dense
skulls that we have today.
And this is how narrow
they are as well.
That's the measurement map that
you use at places like Oxford,
for example.
So if we look at
there, then this skull
is the lesser long-headed type.
They are still
very, very narrow.
Now let's compare that to
the invaders that came in.
And they were called the bell
beaker people around 2,500 BC.
And that's a comparison.
So they would have looked
like giants to them.
So they were coming
over, and they
were looking at our
monuments, the Europeans.
We've got all the DNA evidence
for this incidentally.
And I think there was now
a battle for Stonehenge
just like in the Irish mythology
because the Neolithic queen
that I opened up with,
she had been murdered.
And when I looked to the
archaeological reports of all
of the barrows that
surrounded her,
they had all been
murdered as well.
In fact, in one
barrow alone, there
was a massacre of about 40
males, hidden away, squirreled
away on the Salisbury Plain.
So what was going on there?
I think that the round-headed
people, and that's
what the antiquarians finally
figured all of this out
because they said
long-headed people
in long barrows, round-headed
people in round barrows.
So they were the people.
There was a battle.
And it baffles
archaeologists why
has Stonehenge gone over so
many different tinkerings.
They would take one stone
setting and change it.
So for example,
at 2,500 BC, they
took that concentric circle,
made it into an oval shape.
Then they would
take something out,
and they would change it around.
And they don't know why.
Why did they keep changing
all of our monuments?
They did Avebury.
Avebury is not one
monument at any one time.
It's Neolithic and Bronze
Age and late Bronze Age.
I think that's because the
round-skulled people were
dominating the area and
tried to make it theirs.
The first thing they
did at Stonehenge,
which tried to topple the
greater trilithon by building,
by constructing rather,
a big, big pit by it.
But it still held its own.
Now, earth energies.
I think these people of the past
were highly, highly sensitive
to the earth, to stone.
And they were very
smart because I've
been taught dowsing by a
Chinese geomancer, master
dowsers of Europe, for example.
And the master dowsers of
Europe showed me something.
They got me to Turin
and said, we're
going to show you how even
today the bishops would
enter an ancient site.
I thought, that sounds
really interesting.
And so they got
me to try and find
what they call a neutral area.
And so I said, I think it's
here, just off to one side
before you enter a
church or a cathedral
in the northern part of Italy.
And then I said, well,
I'm going to have
to see if I can find these
in the rest of the world
because what they told me
was really quite fascinating.
You go to the neutral place.
Before you enter the
monument and just stand there
for a while, let the
energies soak in you.
We measured them.
There's a lot of negative
ions coming out of the ground.
And the electromagnetic field
gets a little bit stronger,
and so does the DC field.
So while you're being
cleansed, you're
being grounded as
well at the same time.
So Avebury, this is
the neutral stone.
And you stand by it, and
then if you walk around it
on its inner face,
there's a ledge
where you can sit down because
it cleanses the energies.
So you don't take your emotional
baggage, we've all got that,
into the stone circle or temple.
You get this at Karnak,
with the avenues of Sphinx.
So before you enter, you
cleanse your whole being.
And it really does feel good.
Also, if you're into dowsing,
you can do it before and after.
So if I measured somebody's
aura for example,
and you take a pendulum or
rod and just move it away
from the body, you might
get a reaction here.
Normally it's about here.
Soon as you've been
into a neutral space,
it would be way past me.
So my auric field now
is very, very receptive.
What the Neolithic were
looking for as well,
whether it's a pyramid,
whether it's a stone circle,
they were looking
for sacred water.
And sacred water is water
that is born within the earth
and generates this
spiral pattern
independent of rainfall.
It's supposed to
be very healing.
And amidst this kind of
high electromagnetic field
of 7 to 10 hertz, that was
their first designed cannon.
And it doesn't matter
where you go in the world.
It's very, very
expensive to bore.
And it's very difficult to find.
So when you have moneyed people,
they will want that water.
They know about it.
And if you're on
your normal tap water
that you drink from
the tap, then that
is ground water that
has fallen from the sky
and filled up the aquifers.
So esoteric water divine in law,
that's a healing symbol when
you stand above it.
If you drink that water, you
will live to a long, long age.
And when I did some
water divining for--
he's passed away now--
Lord Bath, Alexander Thynn,
he said, come to my property.
I want you to decode it, Maria.
And he said, I live
above the spirals.
We drink spiral water.
So they do know about this.
That's for sure.
And these type of aquifers
beneath the pyramids,
a lot of people just
say it's a groundwater
aquifer beneath the pyramid.
Yes.
You've got the groundwater
there, yang water,
but then you've got the
yin water down here.
And that's the sacred energy
that will be in that field.
And these energy patterns
of the underground water
can create triple spirals.
And they are really sacred
and very, very holy.
And this is
Newgrange in Ireland,
a terrible reconstruction.
I don't know if you've seen
the before and after of this.
That's got breeze
blocks behind it.
And in Ireland, all of the
cairns, as they're called,
they have crystal quartz
going over the top.
But they stuck it
around the side.
They now know that
was a mistake,
a bit like some of the
reconstructions at Stonehenge.
And here we have the very
famous Triple Spiral here.
And a lot of people
would say, oh,
that represents the
time of the year
and could be linked
to Cyrus or Venus.
But the earth produces this.
And if we interact with
these type of energies,
I believe they regenerate
your own body water.
And they're very
healing in that regard.
So I take people
to ancient sites
to work with these energies
and cleanse themselves
literally from the inside out.
And these are the lunar
effects at Stonehenge
that create these
wonderful patterns.
But underground water doesn't
behave like surface water.
So surface water,
such as the sea,
will react to the new and
full moon in its high tides.
These stones, in
ancient druid lore,
you would only pick
a mistletoe six days
after a new or full moon.
And they constantly said
that the year began six days
after the spring equinox.
I suggest that the ancient
druids were so connected
to nature, they felt these days
because these energy patterns
happen six days after
new or full moon.
So if you go to an ancient
site on those days,
but everybody tends to go
there on a new or full moon,
then you'll be experiencing
by numerous stones,
these triple spirals.
And when you really
work with this energy,
then I have had loads of
people had healing experiences.
I took a blind person
around Stonehenge.
And it's probably one of
life's most interesting times
because she was so highly
sensitized, she could feel.
And she said it was like music
coming out of the ground.
And she could feel all
of these triple spirals.
And here we have another one at
another phase of the six days
after the full moon.
The first one is the new,
and that one is the second.
So a lot going on
at ancient sites.
And a lot of people have
all heard about leys.
I'm sure you all have here today
have heard about ley lines.
And back in the 1980s,
I had the pleasure
of working with the master
dowser, Hamish Miller and Paul
Broadhurst.
And Hamish kindly has
forwarded some of my books.
He's a truly remarkable dowser.
In the 1960s, John
Michell said that there
was a very famous ley
line going from the West
Coast in Cornwall, all
the way up to Hopton.
That's what he said.
And he said to Hamish and John,
why are you going dowsing,
guys?
And see what you get.
And they thought they'd get leys
aren't really that exciting.
They kind of expand and do this.
And then they sometimes
go into the ground.
So there they were dowsed.
And then they realized
they hit on a ley system.
So if you imagine that
there's the ley line
and you've got a male
current entwined in it,
and then a female in
current entwining it,
you could see a symbol
or strand of DNA.
That's a ley system.
And they are very powerful.
You'll get the ley going through
the site as a carrier wave
almost, pushing the energy on.
But the currents, that's what
the ancients were truly working
with.
Because in an environment
like Avebury or Stonehenge,
the ley line just hits
one, two features.
But these earth currents,
they hit every single feature
bathed in them in color.
Like I said earlier,
earth currents
have a dominant color frequency.
They're called the esoteric
colors of the earth.
You have the esoteric
colors of the sun.
So there's other colors
that the earth produces
that aren't on the
electromagnetic spectrum
from red through to violet.
Hamish called those two
currents Mary and Michael
mainly because they
have churches on them
dedicated to Mary and Michael.
And when I was in
Egypt, I thought
I would look for a
ley system over there
because everybody else
just does the leys.
And when I was in Abydos
temple, for example,
you have this solar ley
line going right the way
through the axis
line of the church.
That's done in yellow.
There you've got another
crossing point of a blue ley.
You have three very
powerful currents
coursing through
the land in temple
after temple with
their energies.
They're affected by the
sun and the moon as well.
So you get the solar line
will be charged especially now
when yesterday was
midsummer's day, wasn't it?
A lot of people could
confuse midsummer's day
with the summer solstice.
People keep thinking it's in
the ground, it's earth energy.
It must be in the ground.
But it rises up.
And we've used very
sensitive filters
to try and find the
different frequencies
and the different colors.
And it's interesting
to note that when
you look to famous dowsers, you
have for example, Isaac Newton.
He was a dowser.
But one of the best dowsers,
unfortunately so, was Himmler.
And Himmler opened up
the dowsing academy
during the Second World War.
And in my family
archives, I've got
this wonderful photograph
of Himmler shaking
Hitler's hand, saying.
congratulations
on your dowsing
academy because they
were looking into how to
raise the frequencies,
probably for very dark purposes.
But they were
following and tracking
two very powerful frequencies.
They're opposite each other.
It's the white ray
and the red ray.
And that's where they got the
colors for the Nazi flag from.
Because if you raise
these frequencies up,
it is said that you
can partly control
the whole of that ley system.
So imagine that I'm right
in the bottom of Cornwall,
and I'm manipulating
energies, I can influence
Hopton on the Norfolk coast.
That's the power of it in a way.
Wherever you are, you can
influence something else.
The German master
dowser that taught me
about the red and
the white frequency
said, we're going
to go to Stonehenge,
and I'm going to raise
it by a factor of 15.
And he did it in a
particular manner.
He was a top German
master dowser.
He will always be
nameless because he
has the most high-ranking
position in Europe, unelected
incidentally.
But he is a very
powerful dowser.
So there we are at Stonehenge.
And he said, I'm going to
raise it by the factor of 50.
And he did.
And he said, and everybody that
isn't in harmony with our earth
current would dissipate.
But they do it naturally.
I thought this, I've got to see.
I like that little trick.
So he was there.
He deserved a particular
kind of right ritual,
and everybody laughed.
And then we were just
stood in Stonehenge
watching all of this.
And then, my head
started ringing.
And I was thinking, wow.
I can't handle this either.
And I had to leave.
I just happened to be
talking to two ladies there.
And she said, oh, I got a really
strange ringing in my head.
And that's what a lot of
people can do here today.
They can manipulate
these energies.
So I think when we
go to these sites,
tune in to see if you can
get the color frequency.
And it's so easy to do.
You just get a dowsing dial
and then you get a pendulum,
and you ask to be
shown the frequency.
So for example,
the Knights Templar
had their color frequencies.
The Nazis had their color
frequencies as well.
The British royals have
their color frequencies.
For example, whenever you
get the red and the white ray
of what the Germans
were looking for,
that's symbol of the warrior.
So when you go to some
ancient sites that
were associated with
war and warrior ship,
that's the color frequencies.
And when you go to
other sites that
have the frequency
of the white ray
and the blue ray for example,
that's the healing frequency.
And that's where you can
literally get healing.
And the Templars had
their encodements.
And so did other
societies as well.
They all have their
color encodement.
And the royals for
example, they will only
have a home or an ancient site
where they're inaugurated,
like Tara in Ireland.
The high kings went
there to be inaugurated.
Then you must have
the red, the white,
and the blue, which is our
color encodement of our flags.
So I really feel as a
dowser, when we really
start to decode
ancient sites, we
can say what they
were being used for,
how to use them today,
and how they were probably
used in the past,
and by whom as well.
The natural thing
is, when you work
with these color frequencies for
example, if you're into healing
and you allow that
energy to literally come
through your being,
that will call you
in the healing frequencies.
So it's more than just
looking at lines on a map.
And it's more than just
looking at earth currents
in the ground.
And at particular
times of the year,
if it's a male
occurrence, like that's
a solar line with male
currents entwined in it,
they become active at particular
times of the eight-fold year,
which we've just had one.
The solstices, they
make the quarter days.
Then we have those
days in between.
For example, like
August the first,
Lammas, that's the next
portal day coming up.
Then we have Samhain,
Christianized to Halloween,
when in Druidry, the
ancestors are close,
and they can come
out of the ground.
And you can converse with them.
And Imbolc, February the first.
These are when these energies
are at their maximum.
And it's a sad fact is, when
everything's at its maximum
and you can really, really
become empowered by it,
Stonehenge is a free for all.
Anyone can enter.
And it's then, thousands
and thousands of people,
and it's pretty chaotic.
But if you go there
on those days,
you go to an ancient site on
one of those eight-fold days,
the veil is thinnest, and
then you can interact.
And then you can
feel, and then you
can walk around the monuments.
I believe that's how we
should try to reenact
how our ancestors were.
So when we have a recap on this
journey of going to Stonehenge,
Stonehenge isn't what you've
been shown in the past.
It really isn't.
Stonehenge, I found you lost
features of the lost Altar
Stone, the trilithon.
And there's many other
features besides that.
I've also shown you that
there's a mythical race,
a long-lost mythical race that
interacted with Stonehenge,
built phase one and phase two.
The later phases of Stonehenge
were built by the much taller
people.
And the geology and the
archaeology fits that model.
It's just we're not
told about that at all.
So I'm just going to be
wrapping up in a moment.
This is my new book
coming out soon.
It's going to be
out in September.
It's got far more than what
we've discussed here today.
It's going to be out, like
I said, probably September,
October because I'm taking earth
energies into the next level
now.
I'm not only doing color.
That's all my old research
of times gone as it were.
I found out every
single earth current can
produce a musical frequency.
And if you walk
around an ancient site
in a particular
manner, you're walking
in that musical harmonic
and becoming one with it.
And you can play musical
instruments to that harmonic.
Also, I've discovered how we
can enhance food production
by living in harmony
with Gaia as well.
And my agricultural trials
are now two years on.
And I think that we can safely
say if we follow this model,
you can grow faster,
no chemicals,
and be healthier for it because
we can learn from the past
and bring ancient
technology to the future.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]